outline:
opening:
sitting in the office, me and small team of 3 interns, our first day of the summer internship. we were responsible with compiling and analyzing data in order to provide key statistics for the report for lawmakers.
 we scroll through the spreadsheet and see nearly 5000 reports which were to be processed by hand, and each could take at least 10 minutes
as we were divided roles between ourselves, i paused and realized that there must be a faster way to do this. especially with my knowledge of programming, i knew that this pace of this daunting project could certainly be accelerated with a few scripts of mine.
though i understood how urgent and important the task of finishing these reports was, i got approval from my boss to spend some time experimenting with code, and instantly got to work
paragraph 2:
the nylcv (spell out) is an environmental advocacy firm that works on several different initiatives in the nyc area. 
despite all health organizations sharing the belief that no amount of lead consumption is safe, public school water reports show a concerningly high amount flowing through their pipes. the project we joined as interns is aimed at convincing lawmakers to reduce the maximum permitted lead concentration in these schools – specifically, reducing it from 5 ppb to 1 ppb
 although all of our team came from schools across the country and specialized in different academic fields, we shared a deep care for the environment and seized an opportunity to make a real different to countless children
paragraph 3:
though my code was a success, it was difficult to explain how to use the script to my fellow interns and making sure that the output was always correct, especially since the different types of reports and quality of the scans could result in errors with the output
though i have worked on a group projects in computer science before, it was my first time working with code alongside peers who had no programming experience.
in order to properly explain the script’s function and capabilities, i had to put myself in the perspective of an outsider and demonstrate to them the dos and don’ts of working with an unknown entity that was certainly efficient but admittedly not flawless.
it was an experience that felt oddly unfamiliar but helped me better understand my own code and how to improve it. i also constantly checked in with my peers to ask if they had noticed anything to improve on. though i whipped up the prototype of my program after the first day, i spent the next two weeks receiving feedback from my peers and adjusting it into its final form
paragraph 4:
one of the main obstacles in creating the code was that there were several different types of reports, and in each the data was laid out in a different syntax
in order to maximize efficiency, i mapped out all of the reports with a similar style and tried to complete the reports which showed up most often so that the rest of the team had plenty to work on as i moved through the reports.
–
paragraph:
my work has never had such a big impact on others
the experience offered me a new perspective on how i approach my goals
while life has school has often been structured and methodical, working in a company with a goal has been a refreshing break from that cycle
it also gave new purpose to the programming skills that i have developed on my own since elementary school – though i would only make projects and games to satisfy my own curiosity, but now i know that i can put these skills to good use


My three fellow interns and I sat around a conference room table on the first day of our summer internship, a seemingly impossible task looming before us. 
As I open and scroll through the folder of reports we were responsible for parsing through, nearly 5000 PDF files fly across my screen. As it were, each report could take upward of 10 minutes,
making the goal of finishing everything by August 1st seem nothing short of a pipe dream. While my peers began deciding how to split up the work, I couldn't help but open a report and see what kind
of challenge we were facing. At first glance, I immediately realized that there must be a faster way to do all of this. Especially with my knowledge of programming, I recognized that this type of process
could be automated with the use of a few scripts. Though I understood how urgent the task of finishing these reports was, I got approval from my boss to spend some time experimenting with code and instantly got to work.

The New York League of Conservation Voters, the organization I was interning at, is a climate advocacy firm that works on several different initiatives in the New York City area. Despite how all health organizations concur
that no amount of lead consumption is safe, public school water reports show a concerningly high amount of lead particles in their pipes and drinking water. The project we joined as interns is aimed at convincing lawmakers 
to reduce the maximum permitted lead concentration in New York schools – specifically, reducing it from 5 ppb to 1 ppb. Although everyone in our team came from schools across the country and specialized in different academic fields,
we shared a deep care for the environment and seized this opportunity to make a real different to countless children in New York.

Though my code was a success, it was difficult to explain how to use the script to my fellow interns and making sure that the output was always correct; even unexpected factors such as the quality
of the PDF scans could result in incorrect output. Though I have worked on many group projects in computer science before, it was my first time programming alongside peers who have no coding experience.
In order to properly explain my code, I had to put myself in the perspective on an outside reader and make them comfortable with relying on an unknown entity to aid them. Throughout our time working together,
I would constantly check in with my peers to ask if they had noticed any flaws or features in the program for me to fix or improve on. Ihough I finished the initial prototype of the program after the first day,
I spent nearly the entirety of my five weeks adding features, gathering feedback from my peers and adjusting it accordingly.

One of the main obstacles in creating the code was that there were several different types of reports, and in each type the data was laid out in a different syntax, meaning that my code for one type of report 
wouldn't necessary work on the others; this meant that I had to make an individual script for each of the approximately thirty variations. In order to maximize efficiency, I mapped out all of the reports based on frequency
and tried to finish the code for the reports which showed up most often, so that the rest of the team was had many reports to work on as I continued writing more scripts. I also identified which reports
were most similar in syntax to one another so that only minimal changes were needed.


